Explain C# version defaults more clearly. (#17174)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/configure-language-version.md

---
title: C# language versioning - C# Guide
description: Learn about how the C# language version is determined based on your project and the reasons behind that choice. Learn how to override the default manually.
ms.date: 02/21/2020
---

# C# language versioning

The latest C# compiler determines a default language version based on your project's target framework or frameworks. Visual Studio doesn't provide a UI to change the value, but you can change it by editing the *csproj* file. The choice of default ensures that you use the latest language version compatible with your target framework. You benefit from access to the latest language features compatible with your project's target. This default choice also ensures you don't use a language that requires types or runtime behavior not available in your target framework. Choosing a language version newer than the default can cause hard to diagnose compile-time and runtime errors.

> These new defaults mean C# 8.0 is supported only on .NET Core 3.x and newer versions. Many of the newest features require library and runtime features introduced in .NET Core 3.x:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These new defaults mean C# 8.0 (and higher) is supported only on .NET Core 3.x and newer versions. Many of the newest features require library and runtime features introduced in .NET Core 3.x:
```

Reviewer: Just so we don't have to go and update this every year.

> These new defaults mean C# 8.0 (and higher) is supported only on .NET Core 3.x and newer versions. Many of the newest features require library and runtime features introduced in .NET Core 3.x:

Reviewer 2: The choice of default doesn't determine what is supported, what is fully supported determines the choice of default.

```suggestion
These criteria mean that C# 8.0 (and higher) is the default language version only on .NET Core 3.x and newer versions. Many of the newest features require library and runtime features introduced in .NET Core 3.x:
```
Or omit "These criteria mean that":

> C# 8.0 (and higher) is the default language version only on .NET Core 3.x and newer versions. Many of the newest features require library and runtime features introduced in .NET Core 3.x:

Author: I omitted "these criteria..."

- Default interface member implementation requires new features in the .NET Core 3.0 CLR.
- Async streams require the new types <xref:System.IAsyncDisposable?displayPropert=nameWithType>, <xref:System.IAsyncEnumerable%601?displayPropert=nameWithType>, and <xref:System.IAsyncEnumerator%601?displayPropert=nameWithType>.
- Indexes and Ranges require the new types <xref:System.Index?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Range?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

> - Nullable reference types make use of several [attributes](../nullable-attributes.md) to provide better warnings. Those attributes were added in .NET 3.0, and .NET Framework libraries haven't been annotated with any of these attributes. That means nullable warnings may not accurately reflect potential issues.

Reviewer: Note - these are also unavailable in .NET Standard of any flavor, and Mono/xamarin. So it's only that usable for .NET Core.

Author: I reworded this slightly to clarify that only .NET Core 3.x has these applied.
